welcome back to my
3,850 incredible students wow I still
cannot believe just how quickly this
channel is growing thank you guys so
much for your support of me in today's
video we are going to be learning
English with a short story yeah today
will be one of my deep work lessons so
it will be a longer video and I suggest
that you watch it all all the way
through here's how it works first we
will quickly read the story I have a
really interesting true story picked out
for you guys today so first you can sit
back relax and listen as I read the
story to you this will just take a
couple of minutes then in part two we
will get into the vocabulary breakdown
taking a closer look at some of the more
difficult language some of the more
challenging words in the story in part
three we will have the Deep dive yeah
this is the most useful part of the
video because we will go sentence by
sentence to make sure we understand
everything 100% Crystal Clear finally at
the end of today's video we will have a
chance to practice our English speaking
skills by getting into a discussion
question related to the story if you
guys are ready to get started if you are
ready to rock and roll I have just a
couple small requests please watch this
video all the way through because that
really helps my channel grow and of
course it helps your English grow as
well this is a deep work lesson after
all so the more time you put in the more
value you will get out you can click
like on this video to support me as your
YouTube English teacher click subscribe
and hit the Bell so you never miss
another video guys I guarantee that if
you watch one of my videos every day you
will see big results it will help your
English so so much lastly why don't you
guys leave me a comment tell me what
country you are watching this video from
okay with all of that being said let's
get going as I mentioned today's story
is based on a true story yeah this is
something that really happened okay it
is
nonfiction it is not fiction in other
words it is not not true so it's true
okay uh there's a really good movie that
was made about this story called The
King's Speech I don't know if you guys
have ever seen that movie if you haven't
I definitely recommend it okay so let's
take a look at the story with a quick
read here we go ever had to face
something that scared the life out of
you this is the story of King George V 6
a guy who never planned on being King
and had to deal with a huge challenge to
lead his country Prince Albert or birdie
as his family called him was the second
son of King George V he didn't expect to
ever be king because his older brother
was first in line but things took a wild
turn when his brother King Edward VII
gave up the throne suddenly birdie was
King of England but there was a hitch
birdie had a terrible stutter talking in
public was a nightmare for him and now
as king he had to speak to the entire
nation especially with World War II on
The Horizon birdie knew he had to fix
this and he had to fix it fast he met a
speech therapist named Lionel now Lionel
wasn't your typical doctor he had some
pretty unconventional methods and to be
honest birdie wasn't too sure about it
at first but with nowhere to turn to he
decided to give it a shot the journey
wasn't easy Lionel pushed birdie to his
limits with exercises that were tough
and sometimes downright awkward he also
made birdie face the emotions that had
been bottled up inside for years which
was even harder than the exercises bit
by bit Birdie started to improve not
just in his speech but also in his
confidence the big moment came when
birdie now King George I 6
had to deliver a crucial speech to the
nation as World War II was about to
begin with Lionel's support birdie stood
up to the microphone well birdie
basically nailed it his speech was an
amazing Improvement he showed real
strength and inspired his people when it
mattered most okay that was a bird's eye
view just a quick brief fast look at
this story at the basic idea of this
story now we are going to jump into part
two with the vocabulary breakdown and
the first word I would like to take a
look at is Hitch hitch okay this is a
very colloquial word a very spoken
English word okay it means a problem
that stops something from happening
smoothly some other similar words or
synonyms might be you know a problem a
snag an obstacle or we could say a
snafu that's a very native very spoken
expression snafu okay so here's the word
in the context of the story in other
words here's how it was used in the
story there was a hitch in Bird's
ability to speak publicly uh birdie you
know he's trying to speak publicly but
there's a hitch there's a problem
there's a snag an obstacle something he
needs to work
through a problem he needs to overcome a
snafu he needs to deal with okay and
that problem that snag that obstacle
that hitch is his stutter right when he
talks he has
a stutter we can also call that a speech
impediment a speech impediment so
obviously if he's a guy who needs to be
talking to his country you know on a
regular basis if he's a a a public
figure who needs to be addressing his
people all the time then this is going
to be a big obstacle a big snag in his
plans a big problem that he needs to
deal with okay here's another example
sentence that's unrelated to the story I
traveled all the way from England to
Paris without a hitch basically just
meaning without a problem without any
snags without any you know obstacles
getting in the way of my travels now you
guys know that I am a visual learner I
love to draw I love to create doodles to
help me remember
new words right and so what I'm going to
do is draw a picture of a guy and this
guy is traveling we can see his legs and
his arms here we can look into his pants
and we can see his pocket here now he
had his ticket inside his pocket he was
going to take this ticket and get on a
boat unfortunately as you can see there
is a hole in his pocket and the ticket
fell out of the hole so when he goes to
get on the boat and head to his next
destination he's going to realize there
is no ticket and this is going to be a
big hitch in his travel plans this is
going to be a huge problem for him it's
going to be a snag in his plans a snag
in his day it's going to be a big travel
snafu it's going to be a tricky or
difficult obstacle for for him to
overcome as he goes about his day as he
goes about his travels another really
useful phrase that we saw in the story
was bottled up and you can see that I
have a bottle here a champagne bottle
being popped okay but what does it mean
if you keep something bottled up inside
well it means to keep feelings or
emotions inside without expressing them
in other words they are suppressed
emotions suppressed emotions that you
push deep down that you do not allow to
come out that you do not allow to be
expressed okay you keep these feelings
contained you know a container is
something that you store things in so
like maybe a box can be a container
maybe a water bottle is a container for
your water right so this word contain
this verb if you contain something that
means that you are keeping it trapped
within you you're not letting it be free
you're not letting it out okay so we
have some antonyms here as well for this
one an antonym is the opposite meaning
okay so what is the opposite of bottled
up maybe to express something maybe to
release something maybe if you actually
talk about your feelings okay maybe if
you go to therapy and you talk to a
therapist and you put everything out
there you put it all out there just
means that you take all of the thoughts
all of the feelings and
you express them okay in the story we
saw birdie had a lot of feelings bottled
up inside him you can imagine that this
is true right because birdie has a
really complicated life he has a lot of
pressure there are a lot of expectations
of him and also he has this stutter this
speech impediment that he's probably a
little bit embarrassed about right so
maybe he feels some uh you know uh
resentment some self- resentment maybe
he has he struggles with issues of
selfworth selfworth maybe he feels a
little bit worthless at times because of
this problem maybe he feels like broken
you know and he doesn't Express these
feelings he doesn't he doesn't tell
anyone about how he feels no he
suppresses these thoughts these emotions
he keeps it all contained within him he
keeps it all bottled up as if his body
is a bottle and you know he would let
these things things out through his
mouth instead he's keeping the cork
stuffed into that bottle he is not
expressing his feelings or thoughts okay
here's another example of how to use
bottled up okay she had anger bottled up
for years before she finally talked
about it okay once again we can see she
this woman was suppressing her feelings
she was pushing her anger deep down was
keeping her anger contained within her
or inside of her I have an idea for what
to draw for this doodle I'm going to
draw a bottle as if it were a person a
very angry person okay we can see that
this person is feeling really really
angry right very very angry in fact we
could say they are Furious they are
living
these words mean extremely angry I'll
teach you guys a $10 word as well
apoplectic
apoplectic wow if you can use this word
people would be very very impressed
apoplectic means you are so angry that
your head feels like it's going to
explode okay now we can see that there's
steam leaking out of the top of this
guy's bottle head I think if he you know
would Express his feelings I think if he
would release his feelings that he would
feel much better right but sadly he
chooses to keep his feelings bottled up
another phrase I would like to talk
about is nailed it once again a very
spoken English very casual very
colloquial expression or phrase
something that if you can use this in
conversation native speakers would be
very impressed okay it means to do
something perfectly or very successfully
so if you nail your test then you Ace
your test at school if you nailed a
presentation at work then you really
succeeded we could also say that you
crushed
it yeah you crushed it that's another
very exp uh spoken English expression we
could say crushed it we could say
smashed it you smashed it with that
presentation today you crushed it with
that presentation today you nailed it
right uh okay so maybe there are some
antonyms to talk about here too some
words that mean the opposite or some
Expressions that mean the opposite of
being really successful uh acing
something crushing something smashing
something nailing something the opposite
words might be flubbed if you really
mess something up if you really really
you know botch something you really
botch something you really mess up you
really drop the ball then all of these
words and expressions mean the opposite
means you
utterly utterly failed in other words
you completely failed despite his fears
birdie nailed it during his speech okay
so you know in the story birdie was
really really anxious really worried uh
really dreading this speech he had to
give right but despite his fears or in
spite of his fears or even though he
felt that way he still nailed it he
rushed it he smashed it he aced it right
he did a really really good job and he
succeeded okay here's an unrelated
sentence she practiced her presentation
for weeks and nailed it on the big day
now I think for an illustration here
what I'm going to do is draw someone
shooting a bow and arrow and we can see
that they are squinting right they're
sticking out their tongue
they're aiming at the Target over here
they let the arrow fly and Bam it's a
bll eye it's a bullseye right they hit
it right in the dead center of the
target they're a very very good shot a
very very accurate shot so you know
maybe their friend challenged them to
try and get a bullseye and guess what
they crushed it they smashed it they
aced it they nailed it okay uh they
succeeded and they passed the challenge
not only did they pass the challenge but
they passed the challenge with flying
colors okay that's a really interesting
expression just means once again that
you did a really really good job not
only did you win but you won
overwhelmingly not only did you succeed
but you succeeded amazingly you past
with flying colors one more thing I
would like to talk about here in the
vocab breakdown this idiom you guys know
that I love idioms this is a really
relevant idiom to this story step out of
your comfort zone zone is like an area
okay so basically a space in which you
feel comfortable and pushing yourself to
leave that space so here's the
definition to do something that is new
or challenging for you okay in other
words take a risk to challenge yourself
to do something new okay an antonym or
an opposite word might be to play it
safe or to stay in your comfort zone to
remain in that space in that zone in
that area where you feel comfortable
where you feel safe where nothing can
challenge you or hurt you okay in the
story we saw birdie had to step out of
his comfort zone to overcome his stutter
yeah you know it's possible that birdie
could have just lived the rest of his
life in his comfort zone he could have
spent the rest of his days in a space
where he felt safe in a mindset that was
comfortable and easy for him where he
never had to challenge himself where he
never had to push himself right he could
have played it safe for the rest of his
life but what did he do he took a risk
he he challenged himself he did
something new right and this is really
not an easy thing to do anyone who has
ever actually stepped out of their
comfort zone knows how challenging and
difficult and frustrating this can can
be how tough it can be to do this okay
here's an unrelated example sentence she
decided to step out of her comfort zone
and try public speaking for the first
time so seems like she in this example
this woman has the same anxiety as
birdie does has the same fear as Birdie
the fear of public speaking and let me
tell you guys something I used to have a
huge fear of public speaking as well I
remember you know I'm 30 years old now
when I was maybe 18 19
20 I was terrified of public speaking I
was mortified to public speak I remember
I was so so afraid of public speaking in
class when I was in college that I would
never ask questions I would never raise
my hand and looking back on that time of
my life now I really wish that I had
stepped out of my comfort zone even
though it would have been really
challenging even though it would have
been really difficult I wish I had
challenged myself I wish I had taken
that risk because no
pain no
gain if you don't make yourself
uncomfortable if you don't put yourself
in situations that are stressful or
challenging to you then you are never
going to grow as a person right that's
just a simple hard truth of life okay
now to show you guys what this might
look like visually I have a guy who is
standing in his comfort zone this circle
here is his comfort zone if he were to
leave his comfort zone maybe he would be
a much more confident person we can see
he's very confident over here you know
maybe if he were to go to the gym he
would be a strong person we can see he's
got some big muscles on this side right
so you know if he remains in his comfort
zone he's going to unfortunately remain
a weak person yes he'll be comfortable
yes life will be easy but he's not going
to grow he's not going to to get better
right once he's finally willing to step
out of the comfort zone once he's
finally willing to push himself to
challenge himself then maybe he'll gain
muscle he will gain or get muscle maybe
he will gain or get confidence let's
jump into this guys if you haven't
clicked like on this video yet please
take one second to do that right now
maybe leave me a comment letting me know
where you are watching watching this
video from what country you're watching
from or maybe leave me a comment telling
me about your day today how was your day
did anything crazy happen today you can
let me know uh leaving comments leaving
me likes sharing a video with a friend
watching all the way through these are
your ways of supporting me as your
YouTube English teacher okay okay let's
get into the deep dive ever had to face
something that scar scared the life out
of you okay right away I love this
expression scared the life out of you
you know if something scares the life
out of you maybe you are really really
freaked out you are really really
terrified so you're not just a little
afraid of something uh uh uh you are
really really deeply afraid it scares
the life out of you so I don't know if
you guys have ever had to face something
like that and your life before maybe you
are terrified of public speaking just
like I was just like birdie was okay or
maybe there was a different challenge in
your life that really scared the life
out of you once again you know you can
let me know in the comments this is the
story of King George V 6 okay vi v is
five I is one if the I comes after The V
then that means it's a sick if it comes
before the V then it's a four right we
call this system Roman numerals okay so
this is the story of King George I 6 he
was a guy who never planned on being
King and he had to deal with a huge
challenge to or in order to lead his
country in order to be a leader for his
people yeah if you have to deal with
something we could also say you have to
sort out
something okay if you have to deal with
something then it implies that the
problem that requires sorting out is
kind of a big problem you got to deal
with a situation you got to handle a
situation you got to sort out a
situation you know that leads me to
think that you really have your work cut
out for you or that it's going to be a
little bit tricky a little bit
challenging right Prince Albert or
birdie as his family called him and
we're just going to call him birdie as
well was the second son of King George V
we can see the V King George V okay so
he's not the first son he's the second
son so he didn't expect to ever be king
why well because his older brother was
first in line yeah this expression is
really very literal you can imagine a
line of people waiting to be king right
and his older brother was first in line
you know he was the firstborn son the
firstborn son so naturally you know the
uh the throne will come to him when it's
time because he's the first in line he's
the oldest Heir he's the firstborn son
so he is the heir to the throne we can
see birdie is right here he second in
line
okay but things took a wild turn love
that expression when his brother King
Edward the eth gave up the throne okay
so his brother says I don't want it he
gives up the throne birdie gets the
throne he becomes the heir or the person
the royal family member to take over
okay let's talk about took a wild turn
another way to say this is something
took an
unexpected turn right things were going
along things were going along very
smoothly very smoothly you know things
are going according to plan then bam
something crazy happens that you did not
expect it was
unexpected in the case of this story the
wild thing that happened the unexpected
thing that happened was that Bird's
older brother gave up the throne no one
saw that coming no one saw that coming
no one expected that to happen so
suddenly birdie was King of England wow
just like that in the blink of an eye in
a Flash birdie had become the king okay
but there was a hitch remember hitch
there was a problem there was a snag in
this plan birdie had had a terrible
stutter he had an awful speech
impediment it was tough for him to talk
smoothly and clearly right so talking or
speaking in public was a nightmare for
him in other words it was a really bad
situation that scared him a lot and now
as king he had to speak to the entire
nation in other words the whole country
okay especially especially with World
War II on the horizon okay in other
words World War 2 is coming and everyone
can see that it's coming now this was a
very dark period in history when the
world really required strong leadership
right countries needed powerful strong
confident leaders during World War II
because countries needed
guidance they needed guidance okay they
needed to be guided they need they
needed to be shown the way and that
requires a strong confident leader so
especially with World War II on the
horizon especially with this big
conflict we could also say
looming looming in the distance for
looming it needs to be something bad
right uh you know a war is looming in
the distance
so birdie knew he had to fix this speech
impediment fix this stutter problem and
he needed to fix it fast he needed to
deal with this he needed to sort this
out quickly so what did he do he met a
speech therapist a speech therapist
somebody who will help you improve your
speaking skills your speaking abilities
this guy's name was Lionel ooh kind of
tough to say right especially quickly
Lionel Lionel Lionel
Lionel I would never name my kid Lionel
it's just too hard to say now Lionel
wasn't your typical
doctor typical right wasn't your normal
doctor wasn't your standard doctor
wasn't your average doctor okay wasn't
your common doctor he had some pretty
unconventional methods unconventional
some we could also say you know
nontraditional
nontraditional or some pretty different
ways of doing things a method is a way
of doing things right and to be honest
birdie wasn't too sure about it at first
okay so it sounds like Lionel was so we
could say atypical right so
unconventional
so non-traditional so weird so different
that birdie was a little unsure about
hiring him to help he thought ah maybe I
should just get you know more of a
standard speech therapist a normal
speech therapist an average speech
therapist but in the end he had nowhere
to turn to in other word he had no other
options uh uh uh this really felt like
his only choice the only path forward so
he decided to give it a shot what does
that mean if you give something a shot
we could also say give it a go give it a
try okay he is willing to give it a try
he's willing to try and make it work
with Lionel the journey wasn't easy
Lionel pushed birdie to his limits ah
birdie was pushed to his limits this
means that as his speech therapist
Lionel really challenged him he pushed
him to his limits he pushed him to the
edge he pushed him to the outer brink of
his abilities right he pushed him to his
Breaking Point how well with exercises
that were tough and sometimes downright
awkward downright just means serious
iously awkward or really really awkward
downright awkward if somebody's really
strange they're downright strange if
somebody's really awkward they're
downright awkward okay so these
exercises these things that Lionel is
having birdie do they're very tough
they're very challenging they're very
awkward okay he also made birdie face
the
emotions that been bottled up inside for
years okay as Lionel is working with
birdie he sees that you know this isn't
just a technique problem this is a
confidence problem and that's a totally
different beast that's a totally
different problem a totally different
monster to deal with right yeah working
on your uh Speech technique is one thing
but improving your confidence is an
entirely different thing so this was
even harder than the exercises but it
sounds like Lionel recognized this
problem he saw this problem he
identified this problem and he was
willing to help birdie work on it bit by
bit little by little step by step right
Birdie started to improve he started to
get better not just in his speech but
also in his confidence okay so he's
making progress the the big moment came
when birdie now King George the sixth
had to deliver or give a crucial speech
an important speech to the nation to his
country as World War II was about to
begin oh my gosh the war is about to
start the people need him they really
need him so this is a crucial speech
it's it's a critically important speech
a really really really important part of
his reign of his rule okay so with
Lionel's support birdie stood up to the
microphone this is the climax of the
story the most important most exciting
part of the story when the audience who
is watching the movie of The King's
Speech is wondering oh my God it's time
all of the work that birdie has put in
to his exercises and his classes and his
work with Lionel it has all led up to
this moment can he do it or will he fail
fortunately birdie basically nailed it
he crushed it he smashed it he really
really did a great job he aced it right
his speech was an amazing Improvement he
showed real strength and inspired his
people when it mattered most so at this
Dark Hour okay at this really trying
time he was able to stand up and be a
confident inspirational leader for his
people all right guys if you are still
with me then I want you to take two
hands give yourself a double pat on the
back because you are are really acing it
you're really crushing it you're really
smashing it you are really nailing your
English studies in other words you're
doing a great job now for the final uh
part of today's video we are going to
take a couple minutes and practice our
English speaking skills we're going to
do that with a discussion question so
here's a question a big open-ended
question meaning there is no right or
wrong answer to this question that we
can use to really take a closer look at
this story and think more deeply about
this story okay why is it important to
step out of your comfort zone every now
and then sometimes right every so often
talk about a time when you stepped out
of your comfort zone and what happened
when you did so so what we're going to
do
is take one full minute okay and really
push ourselves to respond to this
question I want you to fill up that full
minute by talking out loud now if uh it
is not convenient for you to speak out
loud right now then maybe you can type a
comment in the comment section
responding to this question okay and to
give you a
demonstration of what I would like you
to try and do I'm going to go first I'm
going to take a full minute and reply to
show you how it's done all right here I
go I think it's super important to step
out of your comfort zone every now and
then and I'll tell you about a time when
I did so so earlier in this video I
talked about my personal struggles with
public speaking yeah I used to be really
really afraid of public speaking and to
be honest with you I'm still a little
nervous about it now but when I was
really dealing with it uh in college
when I was 18 I decided to make a change
I decided to step out of my comfort zone
and I found a club at my college called
Toast Masters Toast Masters is a club
that helps you get experience and
practice with public speaking so that's
what I did I started going every week
and it really help me a lot so if you
are struggling with public speaking want
to improve your English maybe check out
Toast Masters that could be a good move
a good decision okay guys that was my
one minute now it's your turn go ahead
give it a
shot e
if you are learning a lot through my
videos if you enjoy my teaching style
then maybe consider becoming a channel
member I want to give a huge thanks a
big shout out to all my channel members
and my members on patreon uh guys if you
become a channel member there are lots
of perks lots of benefits you can get
PDFs for my lessons and you can use
these digitally or print them out and
follow along more effectively at home
you will also get hours and hours of
bonus lessons that are not available to
the public they are only for members
okay and much more now it only costs $5
a month there are tons of English
teachers out there who are charging
a100 for one hour of private lessons or
hundreds of dollars for an online video
course series but my advice to you is
forget about all that don't spend
hundreds of dollars on an app or a video
series or blah blah blah blah blah spend
$5 save lots of money and support me as
your YouTube English teacher you can
click join right here on my YouTube
channel you can find the join button
right next to the Subscribe button or
you can go to
patreon.com englishwith Connor and
instantly get access to tons of PDFs
tons of bonus content and support me at
the same time for only the price of a
cup of coffee now if you are in the
middle of a study session and you want
to keep it going I'm going to put
another one of my videos right up here
on the screen keep going and I will meet
you there let's keep learning